[DOCS-5908] updating activity view page (#5348)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/blueocean/activity.adoc

= Activity View

The Blue Ocean Activity view shows all activities related to one Pipeline.

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

== Navigation Bar

> The Activity view includes the <<getting-started#navigation-bar, standard navigation bar>> at the top and a local navigation bar below that.

Reviewer: The word "it" seems to read a little better for me, but you can take or leave this suggestion at your discretion. 
```suggestion
The Activity view includes the <<getting-started#navigation-bar, standard navigation bar>> at the top and a local navigation bar below it.
```

image:blueocean/activity/navigation-bars.png[Navigation bars from the Activity view, role=center]

The local navigation bar includes:

> * *Pipeline Name* - Selecting this displays the <<activity#, default Activity tab>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Pipeline Name* - Selecting this displays the <<activity#, default Activity tab>>.
```

* *Favorites Toggle* - Selecting the favorite icon &#9734; to the right of the Pipeline name, adds a branch to the favorites list shown on the <<dashboard#favorites, dashboard's favorites list>>.

> * *Tabs* (<<activity, Activity>>, <<branches, Branches>> <<pull-requests, Pull Requests>>) - Selecting one of these will navigate to the corresponding information in the Activity view.

Reviewer: Avoiding future tense. From [our best practices](https://docs.beescloud.com/docs/beewrite/latest/best-practices#_avoid_future_tense).
```suggestion
* *Tabs* (<<activity, Activity>>, <<branches, Branches>> <<pull-requests, Pull Requests>>) - Selecting one of these navigates to the corresponding information in the Activity view.
```

=== Activity

The default tab of the Activity view shows a list of the latest completed or in-progress runs.

> Each line represents the <<dashboard#run-status, status>> of a run, run id, commit information, and when the run completed.

Reviewer: I a not sure if this applies, since it is referring to something in the code, but typically ID is capitalized (according to this dictionary at least), since who knows if they all agree. https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/id 

```suggestion
Each line represents the <<dashboard#run-status, status>> of a run, run id, commit information, and when the run completed.
```

image:blueocean/activity/overview.png[Default activity tab view of the Activity view, role=center]

* Selecting a run will bring up the <<pipeline-run-details#, Pipeline run details>> to provide Pipeline visualization.

> * In-progress runs can be aborted from this list by selecting the *stop* icon, which is represented by a &#9726; within a circle.

Author: I looked through the UI to see if in progress was actually used anywhere, and I couldn't find it anywhere, so instead I just went with active (it uses "running" in the hover text but constantly saying running runs or runs currently running was a bit much).

* Runs that have been completed can be re-run by selecting the
*re-run* icon &#8634;.
* The list can be filtered by branch using the "Branch" drop-down in the list header.
image:blueocean/activity/branch-filter.png[Branch filter in Blue Ocean activity view, width=17% role=center]

This view does not allow runs to be edited or marked as favorites.

> To perform these actions, select the "<<branches, Branches>>" tab.

Reviewer: Since this is the very next sentence, the link is not really required and can be removed (at your discretion if you don't have a strong reason to need it).

=== Branches

> The Branches tab shows a list of all branches that have a completed or in-progress run in the current Pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Branches* tab shows a list of all branches that have a completed or in-progress run in the current Pipeline.
```

> Each line in the list corresponds to a branch in source control, showing <<dashboard#pipeline-health, overall health of the branch>> based on the status of the most recent run, branch name, commit information, and when the run completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each line in the list corresponds to a branch in source control, displaying the <<dashboard#pipeline-health, overall health of the branch>> based on the status of the most recent run, branch name, commit information, and when the run completed.
```

image:blueocean/activity/branches.png[Branches tab of Activity view, role=center]

> Selecting a branch will bring up the <<pipeline-run-details#, Pipeline run details>> for the latest completed or in-progress run of that branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting a branch brings up the <<pipeline-run-details#, Pipeline run details>> for the latest completed or in-progress run of that branch.
```

> . Pipelines where the latest run has been completed can be run again by selecting the *run* icon, represented by a icon:play[] in a circle.

Reviewer: Small suggestion, take it or leave it. :) 
```suggestion
. Pipelines where the latest run has been completed can be rerun by selecting the *run* icon, represented by a icon:play[] in a circle.
```

Author: Re-run is a separate icon in this case, so I wanted to try and be a bit more specific. However, I can see where that may not be clear enough in this case and will update the wording.

+

> * In-progress runs can be aborted, and display a *stop* icon, which is represented by a &#9726; within a circle.

Reviewer: Similar to previous "in progress", and stop icon comment. 
```suggestion
* In-progress runs can be aborted, and display a *stop* icon, which is represented by a &#9726; within a circle.
```

> . Selecting the *history* icon icon:history[] will allow you to view the run history for that branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Selecting the *history* icon icon:history[] allows you to view the run history for that branch.
```

> . The *edit* icon, represented by a icon:pencil[], opens the <<pipeline-editor#, pipeline editor>> for that branch.

Reviewer: I _think_ it is caps, but since it doesn't have "Blue Ocean" I could be wrong.
```suggestion
. The *edit* icon, represented by a icon:pencil[], opens the <<pipeline-editor#, Pipeline Editor>> for that branch.
```

. The *favorite* &#9734; icon adds a branch to your favorites list on the <<dashboard#favorites, dashboard>>.
On the dashboard a branch listed under favorites will show a solid star &#9733;.

> Deselecting it removes this branch from the favorites list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deselecting the star removes the branch from the favorites list.
```

=== Pull Requests

> The Pull Requests tab shows a list of all pull requests for the current Pipeline, that have a completed or in-progress run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pull Requests tab displays a list of all pull requests for the current Pipeline, that have a completed or in-progress run.
```

Each line in the list corresponds to a pull request in source control, which displays the status of the most recent run, run id, summary, author, and when the run completed.

image:blueocean/activity/pull-requests.png[Activity Pull Requests view, role=center]

> Blue Ocean displays pull requests and branches in separate tabs, but the lists themselves behave similarly.

Reviewer: Is it a "but" or an "and"? Not sure if the statement is a contrast to the previous or not - up to you.
```suggestion
Blue Ocean displays pull requests and branches in separate tabs, and the lists behave similarly.
```

Author: I updated it to this:

```suggestion
Blue Ocean displays pull requests and branches separately, but the lists behave similarly.
```
Does that make a bit more sense or would it be better to have the and in this case? I believe the intent is to explain that while they are displayed in two places, they provide some of the same functionalities.

Selecting a pull request in this list will bring up the <<pipeline-run-details#, Pipeline run details>> for the latest completed or in-progress run of that pull request.

* In-progress runs can be aborted from this list by selecting the *stop* icon, which is represented by a &#9726; within a circle.
* Pull requests whose latest run has been completed can be run again by selecting the *run* icon, represented by a icon:play[] in a circle.

The pull request list does not display <<dashboard#pipeline-health, health icons>>, and pull requests cannot be edited or marked as favorites.

> NOTE: By default, when a pull request is closed, Jenkins will remove the Pipeline from Jenkins, and runs for that pull request will no longer be accessible from Jenkins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: By default, when a pull request is closed, Jenkins removes the Pipeline from Jenkins, and runs for that pull request are no longer accessible from Jenkins.
```
